If you're a business owner who wants to
grow on Instagram, then you're in the
right place because in today's episode,
I'm going to be sharing with you 11
pieces of honest advice that I wish
someone had told me 11 years ago when I
was first getting started growing on
Instagram. [music] In case you've never
met before, hello, my name is Brock
Johnson and it's my job to help small
business owners and brands just like you
grow on Instagram. I have nearly a
million followers myself as you can see
by that tracker right there. I have
about 909,000 as we currently speak and
I've helped tens of thousands of
business owners just like you grow on
Instagram as well. Consider [music]
hitting that subscribe button because
every single week on this podcast, I put
out a new helpful tip, strategy, or idea
to help you grow your brand or business
on Instagram. The first piece of advice
is that it's time to get good on camera.
Modern businesses are built on a
personal brand. Do you have to show your
face? No, but you will have better
success, faster success, and more
success if you are willing to show your
face. People would rather follow other
people than businesses or brands. A
personal brand also builds more trust
making it easier to sell or convert.
Zuckerberg has more followers than
Facebook. Elon Musk is far more
well-known than X. Bill Gates has a lot
more fans and followers than Microsoft.
Kim Kardashian has a trillion times more
followers than Skims. More people follow
and are fans of Gwyneth Paltrow than her
brand Goop. Being good on camera means
being charismatic or enthusiastic or
simply just being captivating through
video. Being good on camera means being
able to come up with ideas relatively
easily and communicate your point
effectively. Being good on camera is
something that takes a ton of practice
and it's going to feel very
uncomfortable and awkward and clunky at
first, but again, I think it's
absolutely essential if you want to grow
on Instagram in 2026 and moving forward.
As we move into a world that is
dominated by AI and where AI content is
indistinguishable from real content,
it's going to be your unique personal
brand that can set you apart. The
stories that you can tell, the
experiences that you've lived, your
unique anti-message which is the message
that you believe, the core identity that
you have that might differ from the
popular opinion. It's your taste. It's
your personality. It's those things that
make you uniquely you that allow you and
thus your brand and business to
differentiate itself from everyone else.
The second honest piece of advice that I
would give you is that you need to start
asking the question who and not how.
Oftentimes as business owners, we are
problem solvers and so we are thinking,
"How can I solve this problem? How can I
address this challenge? How can I
overcome this barrier?" But the problem
is the word immediately after those
questions is I. How can I do this thing?
That means that you're creating more
work for yourself. And I don't know
about you, but that's not what I'm all
about. If you want some hustle culture
bro who's going to tell you to work 24/7
365 that your hobby should be working,
that you should do nothing besides work
out and work, you've come to the wrong
place. That ain't me. Instead, I want to
encourage you to consistently ask the
question who instead of how. Instead of
how can I solve this problem, who can
solve this problem? What that means is
number one, outsource. Hire help.
Fortunately today, it is less expensive
and easier than ever before to hire
help, to bring on a team, or even just
have AI robots who can do the mundane
tasks for you and help you solve some of
these problems. That also means hiring
mentors. There are people who have come
before you who can help you solve these
problems. Case in point, I was recently
speaking at a conference and there was
another speaker who I got to meet while
I was there who specifically was a
retention specialist. Her full-time job,
her expertise was in helping
memberships, like my InstaClubHub,
improve their member experience and thus
increase retention. And I immediately
said, "Oh my god, I'm hiring you." Right
then and there I got her email, I got
her phone number, I sent her a message,
and then a week later she was on our
team. Could I have watched some courses
and consumed some YouTube videos and
learn some tips and tricks along the way
and then try to improve our retention on
my own? Yes. And is that something I've
done in the past? Yes. But I'm trying to
get in the habit of asking who, not how.
So, instead of asking, "How can I fix
this myself?" find the expert and then
let her do her job. There's an entire
book about Who Not How and it's called
Who Not How and I highly recommend that
you read Who Not How. Similarly and
somewhat related, the third piece of
honest advice that I need to tell you is
that you don't need to be an expert in
order to have credibility or even in
order to grow on Instagram. But, you do
need experience. I think there's an
epidemic right now of people who claim
to be experts in certain fields because
they've taken a course about that
subject. They claim to be online
marketing experts because they took a
course about online marketing. They
claim to be fitness experts because they
naturally have a fast metabolism and a
little waist. I am not saying that you
need to be an expert with decades of
experience and certain degrees and
qualifications and credentials to your
name, but you do need to have experience
in doing the thing that you're going to
be talking about in order to have any
sort of credibility or trust or to build
a following in talking about a thing.
Now, I do want to say you can build that
experience in public. So, if you're
someone who's like, "I don't really have
any skills. I don't really have any
experiences. I don't really have
anything that would make someone worth
following me." then do cool stuff,
challenge yourself to do hard stuff, and
document that in public. One of my
favorite examples of this is Sky
Macintosh who is @dailyrps guy on
Instagram who is not a fitness expert
but has grown over 200,000 followers on
Instagram part of his daily series day X
of doing a 20-minute workout to see if I
can get shredded in less than 20 minutes
a day. He has been doing a 20-minute
workout every single day and documenting
his own progress, documenting what he
learns, documenting the inspirational
things that have been flowing through
him. And again, he hasn't claimed to be
a fitness expert. He's simply a guy on
his own journey hoping to inspire others
along the way and through doing so has
built a really large and engaged
community. Honest piece of advice number
four is that quantity beats quality.
Does quality matter? Absolutely. Can you
just post crap? Definitely not. If you
just throw up some random posts, will
you grow or see any results? No. But,
how do you make a quality post? I'll
tell you. You post hundreds of
low-quality posts. Not intentionally
low-quality, but posts that are
practice, that are attempts, that are
experimentations, that are stepping
stones towards a great post. If you
learn just one minor thing or you
improve just 1% from one post to the
next, that is how you're going to grow.
That's how you're going to create great
content. Because yes, it is true that
ultimately great content is what gets
engagement. Great content is what gets
views and followers and customers. But,
the secret to making high-quality
content is making a high quantity of
content. Practice makes progress and
quantity breeds quality. One of my
favorite examples of this was a college
ceramics professor who divided his class
in half at the beginning of the semester
and told half the class, "You will be
judged on your total output, not on the
quality of the vases or the ceramics
that you make, but on the total number
of pieces that you can create throughout
this semester." And then he told the
other half, "You will be graded on a
portfolio of your five best works. So,
throughout this semester, do whatever
you want, practice, work however much
you or however little you want, but at
the end of the semester you're going to
submit your five best quality works to
me and be graded on those five works."
Well, I think you can see where this is
headed. The group that was told to just
focus on quantity, the group that was
told to just keep putting in practice,
to keep experimenting, to keep trying
new things, they created far more, of
course, but they also created far better
outputs. They consistently received a
higher grade on their finished products,
and they reported at the end of the
semester significantly higher levels of
satisfaction and significantly lower
levels of stress. So, you're going to
suck at first. You're going to make
mistakes. You're going to have terrible
posts. You're going to have posts that
flop. I still have posts that flop all
the time and I'm a professional content
creator who does this stuff for a
living. Just press post and learn as you
go. Back in 2016 when I started my first
real online business, I remember that my
head was filled with so many what ifs.
What if no one buys this? What if I'm an
impostor? What if there's no market?
What if I can't sell? What if what if
what if what if this is all just a big
waste of time just banging my head
against the wall. But what I wish
someone told me back then is just like
you can imagine all the negative what
ifs, there are just as many if not more
positive what ifs. What if this works
out? What if this is my breakthrough?
What if this is what sets me financially
free? And thanks to one of today's
sponsors, Shopify,
it's easier than ever to turn those
positive what ifs into reality. Shopify
is the e-commerce platform behind
millions of businesses around the world
and it now represents about 10% of the
entire e-commerce market in the US. From
some of the most famous and well-known
brands in the world like Gymshark to
solopreneurs, Shopify has you covered.
Shopify helps you get the word out about
your e-commerce business as if you had
an entire marketing team behind you. It
easily helps you create email and social
campaigns so that you can attract
customers wherever they're scrolling.
And if you ever get stuck, Shopify has
24/7 round-the-clock award-winning
customer support. That way, you can
tackle the important tasks from
inventory to payments to analytics all
in one place. No need to bookmark
multiple websites and sign up for
multiple tools, you can do it all in
Shopify. It makes your life easier and
it makes your business operations run
smoother. It's time to turn those what
ifs into
with Shopify today. Sign up for your $1
per month trial at shopify.com/tribe.
Go to shopify.com/tribe.
That's s h o p i i b e.
Piece of advice number five is something
that we've kind of talked about already,
but I want to double down on it and that
is build in public. I think a lot of
people want to create their final draft,
their final work, their app, their
business, and then launch into the world
and have wild success. But what happens
is you create that final thing, you
create that finished product, and you
launch it, but no one knows your story,
no one's invested, no one's been along
for the journey, and so now you have to
do all this work of catching them up to
speed and selling them. Instead, I want
you to build in public. I want you to
iterate in public. I want you to use
your Instagram stories, your Instagram
reels, your carousels to document the
journey, to document the challenges, to
document the ideas that you have, to
document the things that you're working
on. I want you to show us more than you
think you need to. One of my favorite
creators who does this all the time is
Kat GPT. She's Ask Kat GPT on Instagram
and TikTok and pretty much all socials.
And last year she launched a physical
product called Physical Phones, which,
you guessed it, is a physical phone that
you can use to replace your smartphone.
She's currently, at the time of
recording this, building a physical
location called Kat Labs, which is going
to be like a studio in-person workshop
for creators and AI people. I'm not
entirely sure, but she's building it in
public and she's documenting the
journey. She even had a series recently
on her Instagram stories where a
squirrel got into Kat Labs and she
documented like dealing with the
squirrel that got into the building.
this documentation of the journey, of
the build, of the iteration, and of the
ideas that allows people to trust you on
a deeper level because it feels so much
more authentic. And then when it comes
time to sell, or to launch, or to
promote something, people feel like
they've been along for this ride and it
makes sense. It's kind of like what Gen
Z would call soft launching. Where if
you were in a relationship, you don't
just post, "This is my fiance. We just
got engaged." You first post like a
carousel where your partner, your then
boyfriend or girlfriend, is like on the
seventh slide. There's like all these
other photos, then there's just like
them kind of in a group on the seventh
slide. And then maybe a few days or a
few weeks later, there's a picture of
them on your Instagram stories. And then
a few days or a few weeks later, there's
a picture of just your hands and you're
holding each other's hands. It's like
slowly soft launching, bleeding out to
your followers the idea that you're in
this romantic relationship instead of
just bam, dropping a bunch of selfies
and a bunch of couple photo shoots on
your Instagram feed. Same idea with
business. You warm up your audience, you
warm up your community to whatever it is
that you're building or whatever it is
that you're going to be selling by
taking them along for the journey and
documenting all of the different steps
along the way instead of just
documenting the final step when you
cross the finish line. Advice number six
is don't chase your dreams. And no,
that's not sarcasm. That is a true hot
take of mine. I think that when you're
first getting started in online
business, you shouldn't go for the idea
that is like your ultimate holy grail,
the thing that is like your ikigai to
use a Japanese term. It's not like the
ultimate supreme being of yourself, the
ultimate intersection between what
you're passionate about and your life's
mission and purpose and profit and all
these things magically coming together.
Instead, start with your MVP, your
minimum viable product. When I first got
started in online business, I didn't get
started doing what I'm doing today.
Instead, my first online business was a
course where I taught moms how to keep
their teens safe on Snapchat. Because at
the time, I was a teen and I had just
taught my parents how to use Snapchat.
And so I was thinking, well, I could
teach other parents how to use Snapchat.
I had that experience, right? And then I
was watching the news every day and I
was, you know, keeping up with just
general pop culture and it seemed like
every parent on the planet, or at least
every parent in the US, was stressed out
about what their teens were doing on
Snapchat. Oh my gosh, there's these
disappearing messages. What's going on?
And so I was like, what if I just made a
little course where I taught these
parents, "Hey, here's how you use
Snapchat. Once you understand what the
app is and how to use it, you're going
to understand much better how to keep
your kids safe on it. And then I'm not
claiming to be some parenting expert.
I'll leave that up to you as the parent
as to how you want to enforce rules or
what rules you want to set in place or
how you want to monitor your kids'
behavior online, but I would just be the
person providing you with the knowledge
as to what kids are doing and how to use
Snapchat." And spoiler alert, I wasn't
someone who was obsessed with online
cybersecurity. I wasn't obsessed with
being a paid snitch and snitching out on
all my friends and what they were doing
on Snapchat. But I saw that I had an
experience or a skill set and I saw that
there was a market for said experience
or skill set. And that's something that
allowed me to make money, which helped
me fund my future projects. That also
gave me a baseline of knowledge, which I
could then pivot into Snapchat
marketing, which later pivoted into
Instagram Stories marketing, which later
grew and evolved into total Instagram or
social media marketing. That minimal
viable product also allowed me to build
a following or a community, so that when
I pivoted in the future, when I moved
into something that was a little bit
more fulfilling or was a little bit more
aligned with what I wanted to be doing,
they followed me on that journey. And
because going back to number five, I
built in public, when I transitioned
from Snapchat snitching to Snapchat
marketing to Instagram Stories marketing
to Instagram marketing to social media
marketing, it was a natural progression
and they were able to follow me, quite
literally, along that entire journey.
Piece of advice number seven is that it
takes time. Slow your horses, aka be
stable. It's going to take time to grow
an Instagram. Sure, you could blow up
and you can go viral. Sure, you can
watch any of my past episodes about
going viral and, you know, viral real
ideas and how to get more views and all
that stuff. But at the end of the day,
it's going to take time. It's not going
to take days or weeks. It's probably
going to take months, if not more than
likely years. Yes, you can have success
on Instagram faster than in many other
fields. Yes, you can become someone who
has a successful small business on
Instagram in less time than it takes to
become a professional athlete or to
climb the corporate ladder, but it's
still going to take time. In fact,
according to most studies, the average
Instagram account grows about 8% each
month, 8.3 to be exact. So, if you have
1,000 followers, you can expect about 83
new followers this month. With that
being said, the members of my
InstaClubHub do see a significantly
higher growth rate at over 46, 46.7%
growth each month because they have me
on their side giving them the exact
strategies and the post ideas that they
need to see faster results, to see more
or better results in less time.
But even for our InstaClubbers, it takes
time to grow. By the way, if you want to
learn more about the InstaClubHub, we
have a 2-week trial for just $7 at
instaclubhub.com/trial,
and I'll link that up in the show notes
as well below. But the bottom line is
that it's going to take time, so buckle
up, buttercup. Honest piece of advice
number eight is to get over yourself.
Drop the ego. That's going to come to
fruition in a handful of ways. Number
one, rewatch your own content. I hear
from so many people like, "Oh, I record
a video or I post a reel, and I can't
watch it. Oh, I hate the sound of my
voice." How do you expect to improve if
you're not rewatching your content? How
do you expect a football player to get
better at playing football if they don't
watch film and recordings of themselves
playing football? All professional
athletes watch film. They study
themselves. They even film practice so
they can study their techniques and the
nuances in order to improve. You're
never going to improve if you're not
rewatching your own content. I do want
to put one small asterisk on that, and
that's to rewatch it after you've posted
it. I don't want you to get in the habit
of like just rewatching the same video
over and over again while it's in your
drafts and over-analyzing it and never
actually posting it. But once you've
actually posted it, rewatch it and learn
from it. And that will also desensitize
you to the sound of your own voice much
sooner. When I first got started, just
like everyone else, I hated the sound of
my voice. But now that I've been doing
this for 10 or 15 years, or I think I've
been creating content online for like 20
years now, when I hear my own voice on
camera or on this podcast, I don't hate
it. I don't cringe. And maybe that's
narcissistic for me to say, but I think
I've just become numb to my own voice
and face, and that actually allows me to
be a better judge or critic of my
content because I'm actually able to
watch it. The second reason you need to
get over yourself is that you need to
stop worrying about being cringe. You
need to stop worrying about being
embarrassing. You need to stop worrying
about what other people are going to
think because number one, they're
probably not thinking of you nearly as
much as you think they are. We are all
self-centered human beings trying to
have self-preservation and trying to
survive out in this world, and so we
think that everyone's thinking about us.
We think that everyone's looking at us.
We think that everyone is noticing these
imperfections and these flaws, and I
just said the word imperflections. I
didn't mean to say that, but how ironic
and how perfect was that? I'm going to
leave that in the episode. But my point
is simply that no one really cares. And
so, be cringe. Be embarrassing. That
will allow you to stand out. That will
allow you to be unique because you're
the person who's actually brave or
courageous or committed enough to post
online despite the cringe, despite the
second-hand embarrassment, despite that
little voice in the back of your head.
Post it anyways. It is way more cringe
to hate on someone for posting online
than it is to post online. The third
thing that getting over yourself will do
is it will allow you to stop taking
yourself so seriously. Stop putting so
much weight into every single post like
it's do or die, like it's a reflection
of who you are in your soul. No, it's
not. It's a real. Post it. It will allow
you to stop worrying about the way
you're looking and making sure that
you're super professional and filtered
and polished and put together and that
everything is aesthetically pleasing.
You will be able to let go of those
things if you get over your damn self.
And the final thing I'll say about
getting over yourself is that once you
do start to have a post that goes viral
or it takes off, which will happen,
don't read the comments. Don't go
looking. You can read the comments on
your normal posts because your normal
posts are getting normal comments from
normal people who normally follow you.
But, when you have a post go viral, you
reach the trolls, you reach the weird
corners of the internet, and so just
stay out of the comments. Don't go
looking. Honest piece of advice number
nine is to stay in your lane. What that
means is you have my permission to
unfollow or mute or even block anyone
who causes you to have too much
comparison because of course comparison
is the thief of joy. And so, if you're
driving a car and you're looking at all
the other people in the other lanes
around you, of course you're going to
crash. Instead, you need to primarily be
focused on what's ahead of you in your
own lane. So, it's okay to keep up with
the competition. It's okay to do market
research. It's okay to scroll on social
media for your own enjoyment or even for
your own inspiration. But, if you feel
yourself constantly in this trap of
comparing yourself to a specific person
or a specific person's result kind of
account, you have my permission to
unfollow or mute or block them because
there is no timetable. And so, what's
going to happen is you're going to
compare their highlight reel, their
success story to your day-to-day life,
and you're never going to live up to
that. So, you have my permission to stay
in your lane and remove them from your
social media. Speaking of removing them
from your social media, don't expect
your friends and or family to support
you. It would be great if they did, but
let's be real, they're not your ideal
clientele, probably. They're not your
ideal customer. And also, you don't want
a business that's just built on friends
and family because that's a lemonade
stand. That's not a successful business.
And so, if your friends or family do
support you, appreciate them. Give them
things for free. Give them handouts.
Thank them. Be extremely grateful, but
don't expect them to do so. The final
thing I'll say about your friends and
family is that many of them have every
intention of supporting you, but their
algorithm just doesn't show them your
posts because maybe your posts are about
Legos and they're not into Legos. Well,
then they're not going to see your posts
in their feed. Even if they love you and
they support you and every time they do
see your post, they try to engage, they
try to leave a comment, they try to like
it, the algorithm's like, "Hey, you're
just not into that topic and so we're
not going to show you this person's post
very often." So, give them the benefit
of the doubt. Don't cut your friends and
family out of your life just because
they didn't like your most recent reel.
Honest piece of advice number 10 is to
focus on the audience rather than the
algorithm. It's my job to keep you up to
date on the algorithm, but let me tell
you, it is my full-time job. It takes so
much time, energy, and effort every day
and every week to study the algorithm
and to unpack what is really working
right now. And according to Adam Mosseri
in my interview with him last year, the
algorithm changes on a daily basis. So,
if you're trying to be a full-time
business owner and also live your life
outside of Instagram and also keep up
with the Instagram algorithm, that's too
many things for you to juggle at once.
Let me worry about the algorithm and the
trends and the new changes and instead
you just worry about creating content
that appeals to your audience because
ultimately it is the audience that
determines the success or failure of a
post. If the algorithm had a mind of its
own and it was just pushing out whatever
content it wanted to push out, people
wouldn't stay on social media. People
wouldn't be as addicted to social media
as they are. Instead, we're all on our
phones all day and we're all addicted to
Instagram and Facebook and YouTube and
TikTok because the algorithm has been
trained by the audience. So, focus on
your audience. Get to know them.
Empathize with them. Create relatable
posts that they can understand. Talk to
your followers. Communicate with them.
Have direct message conversations. Give
graciously to your followers and that
will in turn reward you so much more
than pandering to the algorithm.
Ultimately, it's human psychology that's
going to give you way better results
than Instagram strategies. And then
finally, last but not least, my 11th
honest piece of advice for small
business owners who want to grow on
Instagram is that the riches are in the
niches. The more that you can niche
down, and let me pause and say the way
that I define niche on Instagram is the
who and the what. Who are you trying to
attract, the demographics, and you know,
that kind of person, and what are you
going to be posting about, the topic,
the subcategory, the nuanced niche
little thing that you're going to be
addressing on your Instagram. The more
niche down you can get early on, the
more you will build a raving community
of super fans and followers, and then
you'll grow. And then as you grow, you
can branch out and start to bring in
other areas of yourself and other
passions and other things that you're
into, and you can pivot and rebrand. But
all of those fun things, rebranding and
pivoting and bringing in other outside
interests and hobbies, are only possible
if you have an audience first and
foremost. And the only way that you're
going to grow that audience is by
niching down. Niching down will allow
you to make more money, grow followers
faster, and get more consistent views.
[music] Thank you so much for being here
this week, and as always, happy
networking.
>> [music]